# Cityzen-webapp
Cityzen--Intelligent complaint addressal system
The proposed complaint addressal system has two dif-ferent sides/panels. One side is facing the citizens who use the system to make the authorities know about their grievances by lodging complaints. For doing this, they can simply sign-up for the platform using Facebook login, and then give a short description about them-selves including their name, address, city, state, pincode & contact number. Upon completion of sign-up, they can easily register complaints about various public sec-tors departments i.e. Education, Healthcare, Water & Sanitation, Law & Order, Waste Management, Electrici-ty, Road & Transport. For this, they have to fill in details like subject and description of complaint, category of which the problem belongs to (the ones mentioned above), the no. of days since when the problem is faced and the approximate no. of people affected by it. This completes the process of lodging a complaint. Apart from lodging a complaint, a person can see and ap-prove complaints made by other people who share the same pincode as the person. This checks people having to file a new complaint when someone has already complained about it, they just need to approve that complaint which they find legitimate and its priority score would increase consequently.  
Once, the complaint is lodged, it is automatically sorted into High, Medium or Low Priority Complaint by a sort-ing algorithm that takes into account the category of problem, no. of days since which the problem is faced, approx. no. of people affected by the problem and no. of approvals given to that complaint by other fellow resi-dents of that area. Concerned authorities can then func-tion affectively, trying to address complaints which are in the high priority zone first. The second section of the webapp deals with the analysis and visualization of all the data that we get from all the complaints. One of the features called ‘Hot Areas’ uses a concept of semantic interpretation in Artificial Intelligence to detect similari-ty in complaints and highlight particular areas which have a significant amount of similar complaints on the map. Another feature ‘Public Mood Analysis’ uses the concept of sentimental analysis to gain an insight on the general mood of the people from the description of the complaints lodged by them. Furthermore, data analysis features like bar graphs depicting the no. of complaints per category and the average no. of hours taken to address any complaint per category gives us an insight into the effectiveness and performance of the concerned authorities for each category in solving the complaints which come in their notice. Another feature helps to compare no. of complaints lodged in two dif-ferent areas corresponding to different pincodes to know which area is affected more in terms of problems related to public domain.
